---
title: (리뷰) RSSA
layout: post
---

### About this doc
- 이 포스트는 아래논문의 리뷰이다. <br/>
Golyandina, N., Korobeynikov, A., Shlemov, A., \& Usevich, K. (2013). Multivariate and 2D extensions of singular spectrum analysis with the Rssa package. arXiv preprint arXiv:1309.5050.

### General scheme of SSA 
- Th SSA-like algorithms decompose the given data ${\mathbb X}$ into a sum of different components: 
\begin{align}
{\mathbb X}={\mathbb X}_ 1 + \dots + {\mathbb X}_ m
\end{align}

- The input data ${\mathbb X}$ can be a time series, a multivariate time series, or a digital image. 

- Thus each componets, i.e., ${\mathbb X}_ 1, \dots, {\mathbb X}_ m$, should be also a time series, a multivariate time series, or a digital image. Note that ${\mathbb X}_ 1, \dots, {\mathbb X}_ m$ have same dimension with ${\mathbb X}$.

- The algorithm is divided into four steps.
	1. **(Embedding)** Make trajectory matrix and denote it ${\bf X}={\cal T}(\mathbb{X})$. 
	2. **(SVD)** Alppy SVD (or other method) to ${\bf X}$ and express ${\bf X}$ as ${\bf X}={\bf X}_ 1+ {\bf X}_ 2+\dots +{\bf X}_ d$. In here, $d=\max\\{j:\lambda_j>0\\}$. 
	3. **(Grouping)** Grouping each component, i.e., partitions $\\{1,2,\dots,d\\}$ to $m < d$ disjoint subsets $I_1,\dots,I_m$. Thus ${\bf X}$ can be expressed as ${\bf X}={\bf X}_ {I_1}+\dots+{\bf X}_ {I_m}$. The grouping with $I_j=\\{j\\}$ is called elementary. 
	4. **(Reconstruction)** Express ${\mathbb X}$ as ${\mathbb X}={\mathbb X}_ 1 + \dots {\mathbb X}_ m$. 

### Step 1. Embedding 

- Suppose that ${\mathbb X}=(x_1,\dots,x_{100})^T$. Choose the length of window as 5, i.e., $L=5$. Then ${\cal T}$ maps $\mathbb{R}^{100}$ to space of Hankel matrix with dimension $5\times 96$. That is
\begin{align}
{\cal T}(\mathbb{X})=\begin{pmatrix} 
x_1& x_2& x_3& \dots & x_{96}\\\\ \\
x_2& x_3& x_4& \dots & x_{97}\\\\ \\
x_3& x_4& x_5& \dots & x_{98}\\\\ \\
x_4& x_5& x_6& \dots & x_{99}\\\\ \\
x_5& x_6& x_7& \dots & x_{100}
\end{pmatrix}.
\end{align}

- Donote ${\cal M}_ {p,q}$ the set of $p\times q$ real matrix. Let ${\cal M}$ be the linear space of all possible ${\boldsymbol X}$. Then ${\cal T}$ is a one-to-one mapping from ${\cal M}$ to ${\cal M}_ {5,96}^{(H)}\subset {\cal M}_ {5, 96}$, where ${\cal M}_ {5,96}^{(H)}$ is the set of matrices with Hankel-like structure. 

- Let ${\cal A}_ k$ be the set of indices such that 
\begin{align}
\forall (i,j) \in {\cal A}_ k : \quad {\bf X}_ {ij}=x_k.
\end{align}
Thus, ${\cal A}_ 2 =\\{(2,1),(1,2)\\}$ in above Example. 

- Let $E_k\in {\cal M}$ be the object with the $k$th element equal to 1 and all the other elements equal to zero. Then 
\begin{align}
{\cal A}_ k=\mbox{which}({\cal T}(E_k)==1)
\end{align}